# Robotics-and-Society
Enhancing Human-Robot Interaction in Household Settings through Natural Language Processing

Natural Language Processing (NLP) is making rapid progress and is one of the major contributors behind the success of household robots. This paper gives an overview of NLP along with its development and history. The paper discusses the downsides of using NLP in home robot assistants. There are always concerns about privacy and security. It talks about the way NLP has evolved over the years. 

To study the progress of NLP, two chatbots have been tested in this project. The code for these chatbots were adapted from sample code found on the internet and were enhanced, modified, and refined. The chatbots were developed using the Python programming language. The first chatbot primarily uses traditional rule-based NLP techniques with some advanced features using the spaCy, which is an industrial strength natural language processing library in Python, small language model. The second chatbot uses the Python NLTK (Natural Language Toolkit) library as well as spaCy. This chatbot uses PyTorch Neural Networks to train a model on a JSON file containing intents with tags, patterns, and responses. It was found that with certain commands Chatbot 1 had a higher success rate as it heavily relies on spaCy for tokenization, entity extraction, and similarity matching. However, this chatbot also gave false positive results. Chatbot 2 did not generate any false positives. For other use cases however, Chatbot 2 had a higher success rate. Overall, Chatbot 2 was a better bot but needs more training data to train using neural networks. 

Both chatbots could improve with the ability to process voice commands and a front-end interface. To take this research further, a chatbot can be build using the deep learning technique of Transformers. Improvements in NLP leads to better human robot interactions and an overall enhanced user experience. For home robots to be more useful, successful, and marketable, better NLP technologies need to be adapted.

